Exam 2 Study Guide
Exam 2 covers Lessons 7 though Lesson 10. It will be open during week 11 (July 20 – 26). Logistics will be posted as the exam date approaches. UPDATE: @648

Lessons 6, 11, and 12 are optional. The exam is not cumulative.

The following questions and prompts are intended to check your understanding of the content. The exam may cover ANY content from the modules. The only exception being those pages marked “optional”.

Exam questions are NOT based on the referenced textbooks or papers, but many students find it helpful to study those in order to gain a deeper understanding of the topics covered in the modules.

Lesson 7: SDN (Part 1) 

What spurred the development of Software Defined Networking (SDN)? 
What are the three phases in the history of SDN? 
Summarize each phase in the history of SDN. 
What is the function of the control and data planes? 
Why separate the control from the data plane? 
Why did the SDN lead to opportunities in various areas such as data centers, routing, enterprise networks, and research network? 
What is the relationship between forwarding and routing? 
What is the difference between a traditional and SDN approach in terms of coupling of control and data plane? 
What are the main components of SDN network and their responsibilities? 
What are the four defining features in an SDN architecture? 
What are the three layers of SDN controller? 
Lesson 8: SDN (Part 2) 

Describe the three perspectives of the SDN landscape. 
Describe the responsibility of each layer in the SDN layer perspective.  
Describe a pipeline of flow tables in OpenFlow. 
What’s the main purpose of southbound interfaces? 
What are three information sources provided by OpenFlow protocol? 
What are the core SDN controller functions? 
What are the differences between centralized and distributed architectures of SDN controllers? 
When would a distributed controller be preferred to a centralized controller? 
Describe the purpose of each component of ONOS (Open Networking Operating System) is a distributed SDN control platform. 
How does ONOS achieve fault tolerance? 
What is P4? 
What are the primary goals of P4? 
What are the two main operations of P4 forwarding model? 
What are the applications of SDN? Provide examples of each application. 
Which BGP limitations can be addressed by using SDN? 
What’s the purpose of SDX? 
Describe the SDX architecture.  
What are the applications of SDX in the domain of wide area traffic delivery? 
Lesson 9: Internet Security 

What are the properties of secure communication? 
How does Round Robin DNS (RRDNS) work? 
How does DNS-based content delivery work? 
How do Fast-Flux Service Networks work? 
What are the main data sources to identify hosts that likely belong to rogue networks, used by FIRE (FInding Rogue nEtworks system)? 
The design of ASwatch is based on monitoring global BGP routing activity to learn the control plane behavior of a network. Describe 2 phases of this system. 
What are 3 classes of features used to determine the likelihood of a security breach within an organization? 
(BGP hijacking) What is the classification by affected prefix? 
(BGP hijacking) What is the classification by AS-Path announcement? 
(BGP hijacking) What is the classification by data plane traffic manipulation? 
What are the causes or motivations behind BGP attacks? 
Explain the scenario of prefix hijacking. 
Explain the scenario of hijacking a path. 
What are the key ideas behind ARTEMIS?
What are the two automated techniques used by ARTEMIS to protect against BGP hijacking?
What are two findings from ARTEMIS?
Explain the structure of a DDoS attack.
What is spoofing, and how is related to DDoS attack?
Describe a Reflection and Amplification attack.
What are the defenses against DDoS attacks?
Explain provider-based blackholing.
Explain IXP blackholing.
What is one of the major drawbacks of BGP blackholing? 
Lesson 10:  Internet Surveillance and Censorship 

What is DNS censorship? 
What are the properties of GFW (Great Firewall of China)? 
How does DNS injection work? 
What are the three steps involved in DNS injection? 
List five DNS censorship techniques and briefly describe their working principles. 
Which DNS censorship technique is susceptible to overblocking? 
What are the strengths and weaknesses of “packet dropping” DNS censorship technique? 
What are the strengths and weaknesses of “DNS poisoning” DNS censorship technique? 
What are the strengths and weaknesses of “content inspection” DNS censorship technique? 
What are the strengths and weaknesses of “blocking with resets” DNS censorship technique? 
What are the strengths and weaknesses of “immediate reset of connections” DNS censorship technique? 
Our understanding of censorship around the world is relatively limited. Why is it the case? What are the challenges? 
What are the limitations of main censorship detection systems? 
What kind of disruptions does Augur focus on identifying? 
How does Iris counter the issue of lack of diversity while studying DNS manipulation? What are the steps associated with the proposed process? 
What are the steps involved in the global measurement process using DNS resolvers? 
What metrics does Iris use to identify DNS manipulation once data annotation is complete? Describe the metrics. Under what condition, do we declare the response as being manipulated? 
How to identify DNS manipulation via machine learning with Iris? 
How is it possible to achieve connectivity disruption using routing disruption approach? 
How is it possible to achieve connectivity disruption using packet filtering approach?
Explain a scenario of connectivity disruption detection in case when no filtering occurs. 
Explain a scenario of connectivity disruption detection in case of the inbound blocking. 
Explain a scenario of connectivity disruption detection in case of the outbound blocking. 
